How to improve your logical thinking

On a daily basis, we are surrounded with all types of technology. From our cellphones, to modern cars, and even apps to order food. Have you ever wondered how was that technology created or developed? When we are specifically talking about software development, there are a lot of key concepts that we need to know in order to create a useful application. However, the most important of them all is your logical thinking. One sport that can help you with that is competitive programming, in which you need to solve a problem as fast as you can writing a computer program.

Entering the world of computers.

One of the most difficult tasks you have in this sport is leaving your human thinking, and replacing it with a more mathematical and programatical thought process. When I first started learning some useful techniques for solving this problems, I was really struggling to translate my ideas, and communicate them to a computer. Is like trying to speak with an alien! So, because of that, my first task was learning the fundamentals of a programming language. There are a lot of them out there: Java, C++, Python, etc. It doesn't matter which one you choose, but you have to feel comfortable with it. I decided to learn C++ because there's a lot of documentation online, and when you are stuck in a problem, there's usually an editorial with a solution, either in Java or C++. After that, I moved on with a lot of free resources on the web that explained some computer science concepts. And, one of the most useful things, specially for the more logic areas of knowledge, is practice. Practicing a minimum of an hour per day has helped me quite a lot to be where I am right now.

Translating human ideas to computer ideas.

In order to become a successful programmer, you need to know some key aspects of this sport. Before starting to learn competitive programming, you need to know that there are a lot of mathematical concepts involved. Actually, the whole software development industry is based off of math. After you've decided to fully commit into learning this sport, you have to read a lot of concepts first. Find a good book, and read the fundamentals about graph theory, combinatorics, and other fundamental topics that can be applied a lot of problems. Secondly, it is recommended for you to find a partner or a group of people that you can practice with. This is mainly because we learn better when we have someone else learning along with us. Finally, the most important thing: Practice! You cannot succeed in any competition if you haven't practiced with a real problem before. Last, but not least, you need to have an open mind, and a positive attitude towards learning.

Your second brain

Thinking as a computer is not an easy task. Because of that, after you have been practicing for some time, writing a computer program is going to be really easy for you. However, is not communicating with a computer what's difficult. The hardest part about this sport is your own thought process. That's right. Competitive programming is a really good way of exercising your problem solving capacities, as well as your logical thinking in any aspect of life. Seeing the world with some limitations helps us to focus on separate parts of a problem, and get to one conclusion for solving it as a whole. So, what are you waiting for? Maybe you can write a program that changes the world in the future!